Add bugprone-loop-variable-copied-then-modified clang-tidy check. (#157213)
llvm/llvm-project: clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/bugprone/loop-variable-copied-then-modified.rst

.. title:: clang-tidy - bugprone-loop-variable-copied-then-modified

bugprone-loop-variable-copied-then-modified
===========================================

> Warns when a loop variable is copied and subsequently modified.

Reviewer: Please synchronize with statement in Release Notes.

This pattern is considered bugprone because, frequently, programmers do not
realize that they are modifying a *copy* rather than an underlying value,
resulting in subtly erroneous code.

For instance, the following code attempts to null out a value in a map, but only
succeeds in 

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto target : target_map) {
    target.value = nullptr;
  }

The programmer is likely to have intended this code instead:

.. code-block:: c++
    
  for (const auto& target : target_map) {
    target.value = nullptr;
  }

This warning can be suppressed in one of two ways:
  - In cases where the programmer did not intend to create a copy, they can

>     convert the loop variable to a const reference. A FixIt message will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    convert the loop variable to a ``const`` reference. A fix-it message will
```

    provide a naive suggestion of how to achieve this, which works in most
    cases.
  - In cases where the intent is in fact to modify a copy, they may perform the
    copy inside the body of the loop, and perform whatever operations they like
    on that copy.

This is a conservative check: in cases where it cannot be determined at compile
time whether or not a particular function modifies the variable, it assumes a
modification has ocurred and warns accordingly. However, in such cases, the
warning will still be suppressed by doing one of the actions described above.

.. option:: IgnoreInexpensiveVariables

   When `true`, this check will only alert on types that are expensive to copy.

>    This will lead to fewer "false" positives, but will also overlook some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This will lead to fewer false positives, but will also overlook some
```

>    instances where there may be an actual bug.

Reviewer: Please add default value.

===========================================

Detects when a loop variable is copied and then subsequently modified and
suggests replacing with a ``const`` reference or an explicit copy.

This pattern is considered bugprone because, frequently, programmers do not
realize that they are modifying a *copy* rather than an underlying value,
resulting in subtly erroneous code.

For instance, the following code attempts to null out a value in a map, but only
succeeds in 

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto target : target_map) {
    target.value = nullptr;
  }

The programmer is likely to have intended this code instead:

.. code-block:: c++
    
  for (const auto& target : target_map) {
    target.value = nullptr;
  }

This warning can be suppressed in one of two ways:
  - In cases where the programmer did not intend to create a copy, they can
    convert the loop variable to a ``const`` reference. A FixIt message will
    provide a naive suggestion of how to achieve this, which works in most
    cases.
  - In cases where the intent is in fact to modify a copy, they may perform the
    copy inside the body of the loop, and perform whatever operations they like

>     on that copy.

Author: Let me know if it'd be OK to resolve this conversation; thanks!

.. title:: clang-tidy - bugprone-loop-variable-copied-then-modified

bugprone-loop-variable-copied-then-modified
===========================================

Detects when a loop variable is copied and then subsequently (possibly) modified
and suggests replacing with a reference or an explicit copy.

This pattern is considered bugprone because, frequently, programmers do not
realize that they are modifying a *copy* rather than an underlying value,
resulting in subtly erroneous code.

For instance, the following code attempts to null out a value in a map, but only
succeeds in nulling out a value in a *copy* of the map:

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto target : target_map) {
    target.value = nullptr;
  }

The programmer is likely to have intended this code instead:

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto& target : target_map) {
    target.value = nullptr;
  }

This code can be fixed in one of two ways:
  - In cases where the programmer did not intend to create a copy, they can
    convert the loop variable to a reference or a ``const`` reference. A

>     fix-note message will provide a naive suggestion of how to achieve this,

Reviewer 2: do not refer to those fixes as "fix-note", mention somewhere that check provide fixes that can be enabled with --fix-notes. Also mention that those fixes can break compilation.
